I'm a Matagi.
Tanigaki the Matagi.
What are you talking about?
Huh?
I'm done with all this.
You should know that Inkarmat
is no longer at Abashiri.
I've moved her elsewhere,
you see.
Tch. Is that your way of saying
that you'll kill her if I leave?
No threat was intended,
I assure you.
After all, you would never force
me to do something so horrible.
Would you, Genjiro Tanigaki?
Finding the stolen gold?
Trying to start a coup?
I'm not cut out for it.
I just want to lead
the simple life I was born to.
To live as a nameless peasant.
Is that wrong?
A nameless peasant wouldn't
know about those soldiers.
Who gave so much and
only got death in return.
But you do know
how they were cheated.
Can you really live
your life like you don't?
Taking a hostage won't help you.
The opposite, in fact.
I'd just be a drain on morale.
I assume you're thinking
that knowing her,
Inkaramat will escape
as soon as she's recovered.
Under normal circumstances,
you might be right.
But I'm afraid that'd
be quite difficult now.
Why?! Have you done
something to her?!
It would be difficult because
she's pregnant with your child.
With my child?
All I ask is that
you retrieve Asirpa.
Then I give you my word
I'll let you and Inkarmat go.
That's not an unreasonable
request, right?
You wanted to reunite
the girl with her grandmother
from the very beginning.
--So nothing has changed.
--[gasps]
You should be able to get close
enough to Saichi Sugimoto
without him suspecting anything.
[ASIRPA]
Is this kanji read "Ro"?
Yeah. That says "ro."
And this one is "shi." Or "sa."
[ASIRPA]
Hmm.
I feel so betrayed.
To think that Master Heita
was one of the prisoners.
Getting a new skin
has brought us back
to our original
objective, though.
Searching the river
for gold is one thing,
but there's still a much
bigger treasure out there
waiting for us somewhere.
There's treasure,
and hopefully answers.
What happened when the Ainu were
slain and the gold was stolen?
We might finally find out.
Perspective, got it.
I let myself get distracted
for a second there.
But we don't have time
to waste gathering up
tiny bits of platinum.
That's right.
Back to our real hunt.
[ASIRPA]
Heita's tobacco case.
It's rare to see one
that depicts a bear itself.
They're said to have souls
and do bad things.
[gasps] It's heavier
than I'd expec--
[gasps]
Is that platinum?
[SUGIMOTO, SHIRAISHI]
Platinum!
[grunting]
This is interesting.
Seems like he was collecting
samples of gold dust
from every river he visited.
They say that each bit of
gold dust has its own face.
It's different
from river to river,
and no two samples are the same.
Experienced gold-finders can
identify which river gold dust
was taken from
just by looking at it.
[SHIRAISHI] A long time ago, the
Ainu hid all the gold they found
in a single place, right?
They knew that the gold had
the potential to bring disaster.
So, they kept it a secret.
As the years passed, only a few
remained who knew its location.
Those were the unlucky seven
killed by Nopperabo.
There could be more.
Others who know where it is.
I mean, that's not exactly
the easiest secret to keep.
That was the reason
Nopperabo moved
the gold afterwards, right?
But think. He was only one man.
It'd be pretty tough to move
a lot of gold without help.
So I figure he couldn't
have taken it far from
where it was hidden.
What we need is to find one
of the Ainu who knew
the original hiding spot.
And how do we do that?
Glad you asked! It's likely
they'd still live near the river
where the gold
was first found.
Which means, we just
have to do some research!
Take a little look at the gold
and determine which
river it's from.
Yeah? And how are we
supposed to do that?
Hard to "take a look" at
something that's still hidden.
[SHIRAISHI]
Hmph! Did you forget?
Nopperabo grabbed some of
the gold and made a run for it,
but his boat capsized,
and the gold went down with it.
Lake Shikotsu?
So we go after that gold
instead, and just give up on
the skins we've been
chasing this whole time,
after everything we've
been through to find them?
Nice try, but there's no way
that's going to work.
Shikotsu is the deepest lake
in all of Hokkaido.
It would be impossible
to recover anything
that's been sunk there.
[SHIRAISHI]
Not necessarily.
[ASIRPA]
Hmm?
Ya see what this says?
[SUGIMOTO]
It's already been found?
By some "pirate"?
But... who is he?
[SHIRAISHI] One of the escaped
prisoners from Abashiri.
And a particularly
fierce one, at that.
[HEITA] Shouldn't you wait
until it's a little warmer out?
You'll die in there!
[PIRATE] Don't want someone
else getting to it first.
[HEITA] Even a professional
diver couldn't make it
all the way down.
[PIRATE]
I didn't ask for your opinion.
Just tell me where the gold's
from, and you can leave.
Keep an eye on the fire, too.
If it's out when I get back,
you're dead.
[HEITA] Hmph! It's
annoying when people say
the same things over and over.
[PIRATE] Next time, wait longer
before pulling up the rope.
A bit over half an hour.
Hold on, are you serious?
I can stay under for up
to 35 minutes.
[popping]
[NARRATOR]
Botaro the Pirate's feet
are 36 centimeters long.
And the webbing between his
fingers gives him an advantage
when moving underwater.
While a child, he began
working as a laborer
on the river
transporting lumber
and developed
excellent swimming skills.
Then one day, he started
pulling people into the water,
drowning them and stealing
their valuables.
It was this method of murder
and theft that earned him
his prison nickname:
"Botaro the Pirate."
[OOSAWA]
Hmm?
[SHIRAISHI]
There, see?
It looks like Master Heita
already identified it.
So you're saying,
if we go visit these rivers...
...we can catch
ourselves a pirate.
[KIRAWUS]
Come on, boar.
Huh? Got it!
Boar, deer, butterfly!
Ha, I win again! You're awful
at this game, Kadokura!
Huh...?
--Hey!
--[gasps]
I saw you peeking, cheat.
Nuh-uh.
I didn't peek.
[KIRAWUS] You peek at cards
like you peek at assholes!
Don't go peekin' at my asshole.
--[KADOKURA] Shut up!
--[grunting]
[KIRAWUS]
Let me go, asshole examiner!
[KADOKURA]
You can examine my fist!
[NAGAKURA]
Honestly...
Why do we keep them around?
Oh, look. Our stray
Ogata is back.
What have you been doing
since Abashiri Prison?
Anything to report?
Karafuto, eh?
Yes, and I have two presents
from the time I spent there.
The first one is information
about a woman who's known
as Sofia Goldenhand.
She's a former comrade
of Wilk and Kiroranke.
And a partisan warrior.
I'm certain she'll come
to Japan to retrieve Asirpa.
She and her people will be
another threat to deal with,
in addition to Tsurumi.
As for the second gift,
it appears that Asirpa
has remembered the key
to breaking the code on
the tattooed skins.
[USHIYAMA]
Hmm...
Well, if that's true,
then we need to find the girl,
and quickly.
[OGATA]
She'll likely be coming to us.
Their group is in
the same boat we are.
The only way forward
is to gather the skins.
And at this point, almost all
of them are in the hands
of either Hijikata or Tsurumi.
If Sugimoto's trio
wants the code,
we'll be seeing them again.
[PROSTITUTE 45A] Hey, mister.
Wanna have some fun?
[MAN 45A groans]
Do I look like I have any money?
[PROSTITUTE 45B] So, is your inn
down this way, sweetheart?
I do like the quiet ones.
My late husband
didn't talk much, either.
Huh?
You know...
you don't look Japanese--
[grunts]
[rasping, groaning]
[groans]
[rasping]
[squelching, splattering]
[CROWD murmuring]
[POLICEMAN 45A]
Everybody stand back!
[TAKUBOKU] Her throat was slit,
and her intestines were torn out
and hung over
her right shoulder?
That sounds exactly like what
happened to another prostitute
that was slain in the slums on
the 31st of last month.
Do you believe it's
the same killer, Officer?
Could be, sure.
Any progress so far?
Witnesses or potential suspects?
Give me something I can use
and I'll buy you dinner.
That sound fair?
[NARRATOR] Takuboku Ishikawa
was an author known for
his book of poetry,
"A Handful of Sand."
He was traveling Hokkaido
as a roving reporter for
the island's newspapers.
[TAKUBOKU] There's been a series
of gruesome murders lately,
and it has all of
Sapporo in an uproar.
I've been sure to make them
sound as horrific as possible,
and it's paying off!
The papers are practically
flying off the stands!
[laughs]
Now, my money please, Nagakura.
[NAGAKURA] Bring me something
that's not in the papers,
you piece of shit.
What an awful way
to kill someone.
Does this guy have
something against whores?
[TAKUBOKU]
It's unforgivable.
I hope they catch him soon.
There's a particular whore
I'm sweet on,
and I'd be all torn up
if she were killed.
I hope you slip in the mud,
break your stupid neck, and die.
Kadokura, do you think these
murders could be the work of
one of the escaped prisoners?
It's possible, yeah.
There was a man who was
imprisoned in Abashiri
after killing a prostitute
in Yokohama.
Apparently, it was
a pretty brutal death.
If it is a prisoner,
that may complicate things.
It would be extremely dangerous
for him to be attracting
this much attention.
Police will be putting a lot of
effort into finding the culprit.
And as news of
the story spreads,
those ruffians in the
Seventh Division are sure
to hear about it as well.
[USAMI]
Hmm...
Come on, get up!
Who killed my horse?!
Someone's gonna pay!
[TSURUMI] Hmm.
These murders that've been
happening in Sapporo.
It feels like one of the
prisoners may be involved.
Warrant Officer Kikuta,
I want you to head to Sapporo.
I'll remain here to continue
the search for Asirpa.
Sir.
[TSURUMI]
Take Private Usami with you.
All right.
But I don't want to go anywhere
with Warrant
Officer Kikuta, sir.
Oh, the feeling is mutual.
I think you'll find Usami
uniquely suited to this task.
[BOTH]
Hmm...
[TAKEDA] I'm curious to hear
what the war with China
was like, Tokushirou.
[TSURUMI]
I observed many things,
but one in particular
stands out, Master.
And what is that?
[TSURUMI] Soldiers would spend
hours upon hours training
for battle, but when
the time came to fight,
they only pretended to shoot.
I've heard the same thing
happened during
the American civil war when
countrymen faced each other.
Even if they did fire
their weapons,
they aimed away from the enemy.
The vast majority of soldiers
are reluctant to kill,
and will avoid it if
at all possible.
[USAMI] Tokushirou!
I didn't know you were back!
Well, well, it's good
to see you again.
Am I imagining it, or have
you gotten taller, Tokishige?
Yes, sir.
[TSURUMI]
Hmm. You don't look like
you're dressed for practice.
Oh, I was out running
an errand for my family.
Just stopped by.
[TSURUMI] Two hours on foot.
That's quite a detour to make.
[USAMI]
I like to come here even on days
when there's no practice.
To most people,
it's only an unremarkable
corner of an ordinary dojo.
But to us, this is a holy place.
[USAMI'S FATHER] Tokishige! How
are things going at the dojo?
Have you been working hard?
Yes, I have! And Tokushirou says
that I've got more potential
than of any of the other kids
he's seen training there.
Tokushirou Tsurumi?
--Ah...!
--Oh?
And who is this Tsurumi?!
An extremely handsome
young officer I saw once
at Tokishige's dojo.
Phew! I'm workin' up a sweat.
Thanks for letting me
borrow this, Tokishige.
I can feel my legs
getting stronger already.
The ground is real low around
here and tough to drain.
So when the spring comes, we
have to use pedal waterwheels
like that one to get all the
water out of the rice fields.
It's hard work.
[TOMOHARU]
Tokishige!
Tokushirou, sir.
So good to see you.
Hello there, Tomoharu.
I trust that your father
is doing well?
[TOMOHARU]
He is.
[USAMI chuckles]
[TOMOHARU] Well, what do
you say? It'll be fun.
You can come over after
practice and stay the night.
Then we'll go to school
together tomorrow!
Let's get to the dojo.
Tokushirou's coming today!
[gasps]
Run faster!
[USAMI]
Come on, sir, spar with me!
[TOMOHARU]
He's sparring with me first.
All right, all right, now.
[laughter]
So, you'll be
graduating this year.
Will you still attend the dojo?
I'll have to spend a lot more
time helping out my father
in the fields,
so I'm not sure yet.
You know, you can get even
stronger than you are now,
if you keep training.
You're well ahead of
everyone else your age.
Soon, you'll be
stronger than me.
Especially since I won't be
able to go to the dojo myself
for much longer.
[USAMI]
Tch! Really? But why?
[TSURUMI]
There's a problem in a place
called the Korean Peninsula.
[TOMOHARU]
Tokishige!
Want to come home with me?
[TAKEDA]
Enough!
[panting]
[TAKEDA]
That's all for today.
[STUDENTS] Thank you for
your instruction, Master!
[TOMOHARU]
Hey, let's go another round!
You and me.
[USAMI] Practice is over.
What's gotten into you?
You're so eager today.
Just a few more minutes--
that's all I'm asking for!
[USAMI] Look, I can't!
I have to get home.
[TSURUMI]
Tomoharu? What's the matter?
We need to get
the dojo locked up.
Master Takeda and I can't go
home until that's done.
All this time, and I never
beat him, not even once.
And now, I never will.
Today's my last day at the dojo.
[TOMOHARU]
Tokishige!
Once I graduate, I'm going
away to a school in Tokyo.
I'll live alone, in a dorm
far from my family.
And today... is the last chance
I'll have to spar with you
as a student of this dojo.
He wanted to tell you, but he
didn't feel like he could.
I already knew that, though.
Huh?
Fine, then.
We can go one more round.
But honestly,
I'd rather skip it.
You want to beat me, right?
Hope you don't think I'll
let you win just to be nice.
Of course not!
You do that, and we're done.
I won't ever talk to you again.
So no holding back!
Master Takeda already locked up
the dojo and headed home,
so that's not an option.
You'll do it outside.
Here, in this wide-open space.
I'll watch and judge the match.
[TSURUMI]
Begin!
[grunting]
[groaning]
Ah!
[TOMOHARU]
If I can beat Tokishige,
I'll know I can make it
on my own in Tokyo!
[whimpering]
[grunts]
[coughing]
I'm not giving up yet.
[snarling]
[gasps]
[USAMI squeals]
[bones cracking]
[rasps]
[TSURUMI gasps]
[USAMI snarling]
Stop the match!
[TOMOHARU rasping]
He needs a doctor!
[USAMI] I didn't want
to do it, Tokushirou.
[TSURUMI]
Hmm?
But you told me to.
Those were your words:
"Do it out here in
this wide-open space."
If I'd known...
If I'd realized you'd do this
to your best friend.
[USAMI huffs]
"Best friend"?!
He was always there,
interrupting my time with you!
His dad's important!
Some high-ranking bigshot in
the Army's Second Division!
So I'll forgive him for
the attention he got from you!
I will!
And there's the fact that he
was gonna go to a fancy school
to become a fancy
officer and get even!
Closer to! You! But I' ll
forgive him for that, too!
I will! I'll even forgive him
for keeping it to himself
and looking down his nose
at me this entire time!
I will!
But what you said
to him was worse
than all that put together!
I was outside and I heard
every last word!
[grunting]
[TSURUMI]
I see.
So you haven't told him
you're going to Tokyo yet.
You're as passionate as he is,
and perhaps even more so.
If you learn to harness
that properly, you'll go far.
You could be stronger
than him someday.
You really think so?
[USAMI huffing]
Don't you understand?!
That was all I had!
He was privileged and
lucky and going places,
but you told me
that I was the best!
Then he stole that from me, too!
[huffing]
[TSURUMI]
I didn't mean it.
I just told him
what he wanted to hear.
Hoping that it would
ease his mind enough
to make him give up and leave.
You're saying... you still
think I'm the best, then?
I'm so glad.
Well... It looks like he's dead.
We're partners in crime.
You and me.
[TSURUMI]
I'm going to tell you a story,
and I want you to
listen carefully.
[gunshot]
[USAMI]
It was simple.
We told everyone
that Tokushirou's horse
had kicked Tomoharu
and the blow killed him.
Nobody had reason to doubt it.
When his father heard the news,
he flew into a rage and shot
the beast that had
taken his son's life.
This place...
I will always remember it
as the location
of my first kill.
That's how I lost my virginity.
Like a pilgrim visiting
holy ground, I come back
when I want to think
about that day.
A secret that belongs to me
and Tokushirou alone.
By the way, Master Takeda
told me what happened.
How Tomoharu's
parents blamed you,
since it was your horse
that killed him.
And how life got
pretty difficult for you
in the Second
Division after that.
You knew there would
be major consequences,
but you decided to
protect me anyway.
As a result of which, I was
banished to far-off Hokkaido.
But you know, I've found that
the farther away you are
from the center of things,
the greater the freedom
you often have.
And besides...
...it would have been
a waste to lose someone
as interesting as you.
I couldn't let your story
end before you had
a chance to prove yourself.
I'll be waiting for you
in the Seventh Division.
[TSURUMI]
So, I began to wonder.
How do you get your soldiers
to pull the trigger?
To aim for the enemy with
the express desire to kill?
And then, I recalled something
I'd witnessed in the past
that suggested a possible key to
overcoming a man's resistance
to taking another's life.
I've found myself thinking
about it a lot over the years.
Between that and my experiences
in the war with China,
I believe I have an answer.
What draws out the drive to
kill in a soldier isn't hatred
for the enemy, nor is it the
very natural fear of death,
or even punishment.
Ideology and politics
won't do it either.
So what is the key?
Love, pure and simple.
But even with that,
the battle against guilt
must still be fought.
How does one build love
between himself and his men?
Create soldiers who will
do the dirtiest of jobs?
Those are the questions a
commander must ask himself.
That said, some people are
born to the task of fighting;
suited to the ugliness of war.
Aggressive. Loyal.
Unconflicted.
Soldiers who can kill without
the burdens of guilt and regret
that most others would carry.
The army badly
needs men like them,
though they can be
difficult to find.
Money doesn't seem
to be the motive.
This killer is no thief.
Well, it's not like some whore
in the slums is going to have
anything that's worth taking.
[USAMI] He's killing
for the sake of killing.
He'll be compulsively drawn
to the site of his kills.
He's a pervert who'll go back
to the scene of the crime
again and again to jerk off
while fantasizing about
what he's done.
Trust me, I can tell...
[NARRATOR] Next Time:
"Perfect Mother"!